---
author: full
categories:
- docker
date: 2023-01-25
description: I am the happy administrator of an nginx docker container running in
  front of an application using a mysql database. The database runs on the host of
  the docker container and the container is not bound to the IP address of the machine.
  The challenge today is to connect to the mysql database from the docker container.
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/brightsoftwares/image/upload/t_BSBlogImage/v1643965648/pexels-fauxels-3182746_dwlzff.jpg
lang: en
layout: flexstart-blog-single
post_date: 2023-01-25
pretified: true
seo:
  links:
  - https://m.wikidata.org/wiki/Q15206305
tags:
- nginx
- mysql
- docker
title: From inside of a Docker container, how do I connect to the localhost of the
  machine?
transcribed: true
youtube_video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=20om-9Gwuc0
youtube_video_id: 20om-9Gwuc0
---

How to run in my sequel server in a docker container and connect to it or communicated with it from your host machine. Okay, first of all, we need to install or a pool down the my sequel image. Okay, let's confirm my doctor version first says it will be different. The MOSFET will be different in the future. Okay, and Dr.. Poore just my sequel. I prefer use a static version like Eight. Okay, and age is the latest version. I prefer use the static one because my sequel doesn't always compatible with its previous versions. Okay, now Dr.. pull this and it would be pretty fast in my machine. And since I've already done it and it was loaded from cache. Okay, and now Dr.. run around this image. Okay, my sequel and Eight and he was generate a container from this image. Okay, typically he won't work, but in this situation particular situation, it complains that you didn't specify a root password. Okay, so we run it again. Run it with a dash E means mmm, environment variable and give it my sequel root password. Okay Password: Let's use a simple one since it's a testing version. Docker run a my sequel root Password One, Two three, my sequel Eight. Everything's fine. Okay, and I wanted to I Want it to be running in the background. don't print stuff on my current terminal. Okay, so I just give it a dash T and let it run it in the background means demon. Okay, and there you go. it's running and let's confirm it whether it is running. And for example, we want to say a command into this container which contains the My Sequel server and let my sequel tell us what it's version number. What is its Verdun Um Er God My English and doctor let's execute execute a command. Let's say my Sequel no The first specify the container will which will apply the command. Ok and that container is this stuff. You can give it a name, an actual name, or a human readable name in that run with a - - name and if you don't give it a name, you will generate a hash for you and that's identifier for the container. Okay and now donker execute a command on this container and what command is That is my sequel version. Okay and this part is the actual command that will be sent into the container. Okay, let's run it. BAM It's running in the background right now. Okay and this message is. give it directly from the My Sequel server and we can even run a sequel to confirm it. Let's say show databases I Think this will will give give me an error since I didn't pass any password. Okay so just use it like a regular. My Sequel command let's give it a user name, root and a password. What's the password One, two, three, I Remember Okay and now you can see the My Sequel give you this okay and if you want to interact with it like a regular my Sequel and you can pass nit into this execute and that means interactive to fly or interactive terminal. Okay and well it will give you this exactly like you're running and I think in your own machine. Okay and let's say we we don't pass this - II We just want to want it to give me another terminal. Give me another my Sequel terminal native terminal. Okay there you go right? Well and show databases. Okay let's create a table or just create a database. Okay, create database. Let's call it top One. It's running right? Okay and now let's quit it. Quit And and that's the first method to can communicate with it with darker Execute and another method is by using this my Sequel client. Remember this my sequel client is in your machine in your own or a host machine. Okay and you have to use You have to install the My Sequel client. Let's see with which my support and you can see this. My sequel is inside my host machine in the list. My sequel command is actual is actually my sequel client. It's not a my Sequel server. My sequel server is currently in our container so you need to use Use this client to connect to it and my sequel - you and the root and password is 1, 2, 3 and if you run it now it will give you an error. Since my sequel client doesn't know which my sequel you're talking about, it is the My Sukhois in your own machine or my sequel inside the container. so we need to specify it. post is let's say host is I Remember it's for 0 and gave it a port it's capitalized P Ok and port is 3 3 0 6. Okay let's fry it. It fails again especially in Windows A it just doesn't work. No. So whenever we run this Doctor Docker was let me go back whenever we run this image. My Sequel 8 This image we want to specify a port mapping. Ok we want to map it to maybe this 400 or let's say 12 7.0 point 0.01 Give it a host IP to Radley and give it a host port. Let's say 3 307 maybe and give it a port inside the container 3 3 0 6 and this is the default port inside the container for my sequel. Ok and now let's run it again and it gives us a new running containers ID and now we have to my sequel server running in in the background inside to separate system. Ok and now let's try it again. My sequel you root and the password is 1, 2 3 in this host this host is this. You specify this and let's give it a port a big peak and they should be this Ok it's the host port and now it should be working. Ok good. Everything's fine. It's really useful when you building an app like a node app or a PHP app and they just need to connect to my sequel server just like a regular one. You know we don't want to run a donker execute, we just want it. use it like a regular. My sequel server ok and that's how it works. Ok and you can show database database Ok everything is fine. Well where is the task 1 we've just created? Well, that's in another machine in the previous running container. Since we didn't specify the port and the host name especially in Windows the this step is really necessary. Okay and now that's how we do it. Thanks for watching.